Someday I'd like to return to or use this. First, I'm just placing the rejected submission here, for reference. Maybe I'll include reviewer comments as well. I submitted this to GAC in December 2007, and it was returned as "revise and resubmit" a.k.a. "Thanks but no thanks."

Here are the reviewer's comments:

-------------

	The article presents a novel and interesting approach to studying games, and the argument presented therein is well-structured. However, the article is problematic for two reasons: 1) the hypothesis presented in the article seems to be based on an undisclosed assumption of what constitutes ?normal? gameplay, and 2) the methodology used to study the phenomena described in the article appears questionable. Furthermore, the article contains several generalizing statements, and often does not explain key terms. 

	The article posits that it is possible to employ an archaeological approach in order to uncover the diachronic and social aspects of videogames by way of the physical and material circumstances of their production and reception. However, there seems to be little evidence that this is indeed the case. While the article demonstrates that the graphic representation of game elements in Berzerk differ in the various versions of the game, and that this is due to the differences in the material substrate of the gaming hardware, this approach cannot be considered archaeological (neither in the traditional or the Foucauldian sense), and it does not lead to insights about the contexts in which these games were produced and consumed. 

	This misreading seems to be partly due to a misapprehension of what constitutes ?normal? gameplay. While the author is certainly right in assuming that the console versions of the game are usually played employing a (colour) CRT television as output device, and that the emulated versions are usually played using a computer monitor (CRT or TFT), this can by no means be taken for granted. For example, the console versions of the game can be played both on colour and b/w televisions, and the emulated versions could just as well be played on an RGB device such as a screen projector. This draws attention to the fact that the coupling between gaming hardware and output device is fairly loose. 

	The problems caused by this approach become evident in the discussion of Berzerk on the Atari 2600. On p. 12 of the MS, the author describe how s/he intercepted and manipulated images from an emulated version of this game version, resulting in an image that ?can be considered a rather accurate rendering of the original image?.The author then compares that image to one that was generated by taking a (digital?) photograph of the screen. This draws attention to a fundamental problem in the methodology that results from the way images are intercepted, manipulated, and presented. In both cases, the technology that is used to generate the images (screenshot software and photography, respectively) is rendered invisible by the author, thus ?naturalizing? the images. This, however, runs counter to the author?s claim that the technological level always informs the interface level. 

	This is further confounded by the author?s disregard of the extent to which ?fuzziness? and ?jaggedness? depend on the viewer?s distance to the screen, the size, placement, and settings of the screen, and on the physiological and mental idiosyncrasies of the viewer (e.g. bad eyesight, colour blindness, etc.). Indeed, the discussion of the criteria of fuzziness and jaggedness, while being theoretically productive, doesn?t seem to recognize that this distinction is itself ?fuzzy?. Finally, the images in the article are presented in a digital document (and later in print), which involves further manipulations of the material. All of this renders the images inappropriate as ?evidence? for the author?s claims. 

	These theoretical and methodological shortcomings alone require major revision of the article, but the meagre findings presented as results raise questions about the viability of this approach. The one genuinely interesting result ? the fact that the representation of the main character has implications for the gameplay (?bulletproof bowtie?) is glossed over by the author, who decides rather to focus on the representation of the numeral ?3? in the various versions of the game. This is a decision that I find hard to follow, and I am afraid most readers of Games and Culture will feel the same way. The insight that the representation of the numeral ?3? is dependent on gaming hardware, and that certain typefaces were chosen because of the characteristics of output devices does not seem to warrant a full-length scholarly paper. In fact, this would be a much more interesting paper if it compared the influence of display technology on typography to that of print technology on typography. Finally, the article makes a number of generalizing statements (e.g., ?Studying videogames requires an archaeological approach?, p.2) and does not define a number of terms (e.g., ?platform studies?, ?native text rendering engine?, ?halation?).
